---
icon: /images/
important: true
published: true
title: Tokyo
tags:
  - travel
---
Tokyo is one of the most electrically energizing, inspiring, and delicious places I've been to. I've had the priveledge to explore it numerous times in the past few years, to visit markets, restaurants, and to cook some pop-up dinners myself. The chaotic intensity of this city makes it marvelous — but it can also be a tiring, anxiety-provoking place with dramatically different cultural norms. Below is a constantly updating collection of my essential reccomendations to make the best of a trip to Tokyo.

I've learned and a handful of restaurants I've loved. More than anything, though, be social and open-minded and try to find a friendly Japanese person to show you around: you'll have a far better time than following any of my suggestions by yourself. 

Here are my essential tips for optimizing a visit to Tokyo, Japan.


#### Technology

Japan is far more technologically advanced than the USA, and having the right apps and tools really improves the experience of being a tourist.

It's really helpful to have a working data plan while in Japan — I rely constantly on a connected smartphone to translate, get directions, contact friends, and more. It's very difficult for foreigners to easily get a fully working cell phone with SMS and phone call capabilities — but thankfully it's easy to get a data plan.

If you have a phone with ESIM capabilities, download the [Truphone](https://www.truphone.com/iphone-xs-dual-sim-plan/) or [Gigsky](https://www.gigsky.com/travel-japan-with-iphone-xs-xr/) apps. You can activate a virtual data plan with these carriers before you even land and your phone will work perfectly upon arrival, without having to change SIM cards. Otherwise, visit a few cell phone stands at the airport when you arrive — prices are reasonable for SIM cards that come with more than enough data.

### Payments
American credit cards are rarely accepted in Japan, and slowly counting coins or bills will be super frustrating. However, most goods/service vendors accept digital payments.

If you have a phone with contactless payment abilities, download the [SuicaEng app](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/suicaeng/id1304852119). After you create an account, load it with money, and connect it to your iOS or Android wallet, holding your phone near a terminal will automatically debit your account to pay for subways, taxis, vending machines, convenience stores, ramen shops...basically anything.

Just ask "Suica?" at a cash register if you're ever unsure. For subways, this technology is particularly magical: no waiting in line, holding on to tickets, simply hold your phone near the turnstyle when entering/exiting.

If you don't have a smartphone with contactless payment abilities, you can still get a Suica card at airports and major subway stations and use it in place of your phone for many, many establishments and services. If you're lazy, pay $10 extra and [order one ahead of time online](https://www.simcardgeek.com/product/buy-suica-card/?r=6).


### Typing
Installing a _romanji_ keyboard on your smartphone allows you to type Japanese characters by spelling them out in English. This means you can type "soba" and your phone will automatically offer to replace it with そば. This comes in handy all the time, but most often when looking up directions or restaurants — for example, you'll always find many more soba restaurants by searching Google Maps for _そば_ than for _soba_.

To install on an iPhone, go to Settings → General → Keyboard → Add New Keyboard → Add New Keyboard → Japanese → Romanji. 


### Travel
Looking up restaurant categories or keywords with a Romanji keyboard on Google Maps will deliver tons of results, and the app will help you navigate the subway to your destination perfectly. Your Suica makes paying for subway travel completely painless. 

Although Tokyo is outrageously dense, it differs form most American cities in how many highways weave through its center. As a result, driving from one corner to another can actually be relatively quick. However, if you wish to take a taxi, do note that they are pretty expensive; I would guess about Japanese taxis cost about twice the price of their NYC counterparts. To hail a taxi, head to a busy street and stick your arm out when you see a taxi with a bright red text lit up in the windshield (bright green text means the taxi is taken).


### Translation
Google Translate is good to have on hand. Download the Japanese-English data completely so it will work even offline. The camera function dynamically translates any menus, signs, or text that you point it at.

Ultimately, though, expect to do a lot of pointing and charades.

### Communication 
Because your phone will only have data, prepare to communicate with friends and family using apps which can send text, audio, and video all over data. FaceTime, FaceTime Audio, WhatsApp, will work well, but download the app [LINE](https://line.me/en-US/download) if you want to connect with new Japanese friends — it's the preferred application and also allows for data-based voice and video calls.


#### Food

My first tip about restaurants: try to be outgoing and befriend a Japanese person in any way possible. Ask if you can buy them dinner provided they take you to their favorite traditional hidden restaurants around the city. If they take you up on the offer, I'm certain you'll have a better time than following my specific reccomendations without an ability to read menus or communicate with servers.

That being said, here are 



### Picking a Random Place
If you're by yourself or without a Japanese guide, picking random restaurants is often the most fun, because there's no 45 minutes of stressful googling and ending up at a tourist trap. In general, use Tabelog (the Yelp of Japan), or just head to a subway station or giant office building. Slowly walk around and follow hungry looking businessmen to a shop specializing in one type of cuisine, especially at lunch hours — you won't be dissapointed. 

If you do want to use a search engine, head to [Tabelog](https://tabelog.com/en/) which is basically the Yelp of Japan. 

Anyways, here are my favorite categories of dining in Tokyo. Make sure you go to at 

### Izakaya
While most restaurants in Japan focus on one thing, Izakayas are general pubs that serve tons of things and stay open super late, often 24/7.

### Yakitori
Dozens of specific cuts of chicken. White oak charcoal. Bamboo skewers. Brushed with soy sauce or seasoned simply with salt, _yakitori_ is possibly my favorite Japanese style of dining. Any place with cold beers, happy businessmen, and an irresistable charcoal smell will do the trick. 

I always get the chicken sausage with a raw egg yolk to dip it in.

### Soba

### Udon

### Tempura

### Sushi
Kaiten conveyor belt sushi is fun, and delicious, but you can also try pretty excellent neighborhood sushi at the same price. Learn the names of fish that you like — I always order silver-skinned fatty fishes like _iwashi_ (sardine) and _aji_ (horse mackerel), as well as briny and sweet _ama-ebi_, raw giant prawns. To end the meal, I like asking for miso soup with tiny clams and a _ume-shiso maki_ (a palette cleansing roll containing sour salted plums and herbacious shiso).

### Katsu
A delicious fatty pork chop or chicken, fried medium rare with an ultra crispy coating. Usually served alongside a dollop of super spicy mustard, and a giant pile of shaved cabbage dressed with a bright soy sauce.

Any respectable katsu places should bring you a little mortar and pestle with fresh sesame seeds, and a dark, sweet, sauce that's to my taste a better Japanese version of American BBQ sauce. Mixed together and used as a dip for your _katsu_, it's heavenly. Many places will moreover have a whole little DIY bar where you can assemble the exact toppings you'd like, drawing from different misos, pickles, sauces, and more.



#### Get some dope souvenirs

### Grocery Stores
Wherever I travel, I love to visit giant grocery stores to find great goodies to bring home. Huge department stores usually have enourmous grocery markets in their bottom floors: generally one floor of curated stands selling delicacies, and then a traditional supermarket on the floor below. My favorite is the Shibuya Food Show, but there's also tons of big similar markets in department stores and subway stations in Ginza, Shinjuku, and more city centers.

I always make sure to get tons of pickles, misos, and whiskeys

### Lifestyle and Cosmetic Stores
Muji, duh, has amazing bathroom and kitchen organizational items, great basic clothing, and amazing little snacks and candies. 

I also highly reccomend LOFT, a chain of department stores for home goods. LOFT carries floors and floors of incredible Japanese body products (soaps, bath salts, clay scrubs, and more) and tableware (elegant plates, napkins, glasses, tea whisks, etc.) without a tourist markup.

### Kapabashi Street
Kappabashi street, in Asakusa, is home to a few dense blocks of Japanese cooking appliances and tools. To be honest, some of the bigger stores here are kind of junky, but there are some gems as well. 

You can find simple Japanese style denim aprons for $10, beautiful binchotan grills for DIY yakitori, wonderful knives, and more. 

My favorite is the _hashi_ (chopstick) store where you can see all the different types of wood and bamboo that chopsticks are made from, as well as the important distinctions between different width, length, and pointiness of different chopsticks. I'd advise getting something very simple that showcases a nice single material — I personally took home the thinnest traditional bamboo chopsticks.


### Antique Street
[Antique Street](https://experience-suginami.tokyo/2018/10/nishiogi-antique-street/) has some wonderful stores selling legit tea ceremony bowls, traditional flower arranging tools, and beautiful functional and non-functional artworks.

I use Ikebana flower arranging tools all the time in my home, as well as tea bowls and whisks.

### 


### Find Time to Leave Tokyo
Tokyo is amazing — but my love for Japan has deepened upon seeing how different the country is outside of this metropolis. If you can, take some time to explore outside. I've enjoyed visiting

- Kyushu, the southern island of Kyushu with its volcanic hot springs, wonderful fishing islands. Fukuoka and Kagoshima are two major cities, but take a boat ride or something to get into the middle of nowhere. 
- 
- Shizuoka prefecture, only a few hours from Tokyo, where fresh wasabi is farmed, tons of top quality tea is grown, and Mount Fuji is located among breathtaking terrain.
- 
- Hokkaido, the largest northernmost island, with its vast mountains, hills, lakes, incredible fresh dairy, fresh fish, and uni.
